GWEN IFILL: Good evening.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: We bring you the
"NewsHour" tonight
from the Wells Fargo Center in
Philadelphia,
site of this week's Democratic
National Convention.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's day three,
and a star-studded
night on the main stage, with
speeches from
President Obama, Vice President
Joe Biden
and Hillary Clinton's running
mate, Tim Kaine.
GWEN IFILL: Plus, part three of
our Hillary
Clinton biography series.
The first lady steps out from
the shadow of
her husband and into her own
political identity.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN, Journalist:
As soon as
she had a job to do and was a
Cabinet member
of the United States, she seemed
completely
relaxed and completely focused
on doing that
job.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
in Washington.
We will have all the
non-convention news of
the day, including the close of
the high-profile
Freddie Gray case.
A controversial death which
sparked national
protests ends with charges
dropped on three
remaining officers involved, a
defeat for
the city's top prosecutor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Democratic
delegates here
in Philadelphia have now
completed their national
ticket.
This afternoon, they voice-voted
the nomination
of Tim Kaine to be Hillary
Clinton's vice
presidential running mate.
He will be a main speaker
tonight.
And so will President Obama,
making the case
that his former secretary of
state is the
nation's best hope of coming
together and
staying safe.
Correspondent John Yang begins
our coverage:
JOHN YANG: At the White House,
President Obama
prepared for his last convention
as president.
QUESTION: How do you feel about
tonight, Mr.
President?
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
What's happening tonight?
Oh.
That was a joke.
You look so serious.
I feel great.
JOHN YANG: Also on the program
tonight, Vice
President Biden, and Hillary
Clinton's choice
to be the next vice president.
This morning, Virginia Senator
Tim Kaine spoke
to home state delegates.
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
She's going to open up who we
are as a nation,
who the leadership of this
nation is.
And people are going to be able
to see themselves
in that office who never could
have imagined
it before.
I think it's great for men to be
able to stand
and support strong women leaders
all across
this nation.
JOHN YANG: Away from the
convention, more
fireworks over those hacked
Democratic National
Committee e-mails.
American intelligence officials
say it appears
to be the work of the Russian
government.
Today, Donald Trump added fuel
to the fire.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I will tell you this.
Russia, if you're listening, I
hope you're
able to find the 30,000 e-mails
that are missing.
I think you will probably be
rewarded mightily
by our press.
Let's see if that happens.
JOHN YANG: The Clinton campaign
said that
moved it from being a political
issue to a
question of national security.
Back in Philadelphia, Bernie
Sanders urged
supporters to close ranks behind
the woman
who defeated him.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
It is not good enough just to
elect Hillary
Clinton.
It is to transform America, and
to make sure
that we have a Democratic
Senate, a Democratic
House and a Democratic president
who will
do that.
(APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: Last night, dozens of
Sanders delegates
walked out of the convention.
WOMAN: We don't believe that
Clinton is a
true Democrat.
We don't think she really
believes in a true
democracy.
You count every vote, in every
state, and
you make sure they all have
every right to
vote, in every single way.
She doesn't care about that.
She has taken away our votes and
our voice.
We're making sure we're heard.
JOHN YANG: In an interview with
NBC's "Today
Show," Mr. Obama called for
unity.
BARACK OBAMA: One of the dangers
in an election
like this is that people don't
take the challenge
seriously, they stay home, and
we end up getting
the unexpected.
JOHN YANG: A message he will
bring directly
to the delegates tonight.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang in Philadelphia.
GWEN IFILL: Next, we head down
to the convention
floor, where NPR's "Weekend
Edition Sunday"
host, Rachel Martin, is standing
by.
Rachel joins us every night this
week as part
of our joint "PBS NewsHour" and
NPR convention
coverage.
Rachel, what do we expect
tonight?
RACHEL MARTIN: Hey, Gwen.
So the last couple of nights
here at the Democratic
National Convention have been
about healing
those wounds caused in the
primary battle.
Tonight, Democrats are going to
try to turn
the page.
The focus is going to be on two
very important
issues, national security and
the economy.
Over the past couple of days,
Donald Trump
has really hammered the
Democrats, saying,
where's the conversation about
ISIS?
Where's all the talk about the
threat from
terrorism?
Tonight will be the Democrats'
chance to answer
that and they will do it with
some heavy hitters,
one of them, Leon Panetta, a
former director
of the CIA and former director
of defense.
He will take the stage and make
the case as
to why Hillary Clinton should be
the next
commander in chief.
Also, on the economy, another
heavy hitter,
Vice President Joe Biden, he has
said that
Democrats have kind of forgotten
how to talk
to white working-class voters.
He's going to reach directly out
to those
voters with his message tonight.
We will also hear from Tim
Kaine, Hillary
Clinton's vice presidential
pick.
And, finally, closing out the
evening, the
keynote address will be from
Barack Obama,
arguably Hillary Clinton's most
powerful surrogate.
All eyes will be on him and his
message this
evening -- back to you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you,
Rachel.
We will be talking to you
throughout the night.
As we know, conventions are
often a place
where relative newcomers capture
the national
political spotlight.
In 2012, that was true for
Julian Castro,
then mayor of San Antonio.
He's now serving in President
Obama's Cabinet
as the secretary of housing and
urban development.
His brother, Joaquin Castro, is
a second-term
congressman from San Antonio.
Both men are being floated as
potential next
heads of the Democratic National
Committee,
and both of them join us now.
And we welcome you to the
program.
To Julian Castro first.
You were -- I have to ask you,
you were clearly
on the list for Hillary Clinton
to consider
as her vice presidential running
mate.
You even did a tryout.
You went out and campaigned with
her.
She chose Tim Kaine.
Was he the best choice?
JULIAN CASTRO, U.S. Secretary of
Housing and
Urban Development: Oh, I think
he was.
She chose an excellent man.
He's a very good man.
He's very well-prepared, having
been a governor,
a senator, sitting on the Senate
Foreign Relations
Committee.
Maybe most importantly, he
shares a broad,
inclusive view of America, so he
is going
to be a great vice presidential
nominee and
a great vice president to serve
her.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about the
great inclusive
role, Congressman Castro.
We know that Tim Kaine, among
other great
qualities, speaks Spanish quite
fluently.
So, that brings me to the
question of what
two of the nation's leading
Latino politicians
think about how this campaign is
playing out,
and whether Texas is in play and
whether Latino
voters are in play for Donald
Trump?
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO (D), Texas: Well,
first, I
think that the Clinton campaign,
the Clinton-Kaine
campaign now, is doing an
excellent job connecting
with Latino voters.
We have seen more permanent
residents in this
cycle wanting to become
citizens.
We have seen more people,
including many Hispanics,
registering to vote.
And so that's a good thing.
And I do believe that she will
get upwards
of 75 percent of the Latino vote
in this election.
The fact is Donald Trump is
trying to divide
Americans along racial and
ethnic lines, and
it's unhealthy for the country.
I say that as somebody who our
grandmother
came here from Mexico when she
was 6 years
old.
And my grandmother was not a
murderer or a
rapist.
She was an orphan who came with
her younger
sister.
So to hear Donald Trump kick off
his campaign
with a slur against immigrants
was very hard
to take.
JULIAN CASTRO: He really has,
truly has motivated
the Latino community more than
any other presidential
candidate, I think, in
generations, and motivated
them in a negative way.
And so if the turnout rate in
2012 among Hispanics
was 48 percent, I expect it to
go at least
into the 50s for this election.
And that's going to, I think,
make a big difference
in places like Colorado, Nevada,
Florida,
even in places like Virginia,
with Northern
Virginia, as diverse as it is.
It was a mistake for the
Republicans to nominate
someone who is seen in the
Hispanic community
as being against them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At the same time,
Congressman
Castro, you were quoted as
saying, I think,
just a couple of days ago that
part of the
vote that Donald Trump is
attracting has to
do with a fear about the
economy.
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is Hillary
Clinton addressing
that?
I know Vice President Joe Biden
said in an
interview I think just today
that the party
hasn't really spoken to those
Americans who
are worried about the economy.
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: Yes.
No, I think that she is.
President Obama has brought this
country back
economically so far from where
we were when
he took office, and Hillary
Clinton is going
to take that baton and take us
even further.
And what she's doing is what we
have done
for generations, which is really
build out
an infrastructure of opportunity
in America.
That means building great public
schools and
universities, a strong health
care system,
including keeping the Affordable
Care Act,
and then an economy that works
well for people
so that when they put in a hard
day's work,
they can support themselves and
their family
members.
Those are the fundamentals that
have distinguished
this nation from other nations
in the world.
And she's going to build up
opportunity.
Donald Trump is going to tear it
down if he
becomes president.
GWEN IFILL: Julian Castro, I
want to ask you
about today's news, in which
Donald Trump
suggested that maybe it might be
OK if Vladimir
Putin did some -- how do I put
this -- did
some checking into Hillary
Clinton's e-mails
and changed -- and shared them
with the world.
We have, of course, been dealing
this week
with the DNC hack.
And there has been a lot of
speculation, especially
among Democrats, that the
Russians are behind
it.
What's your reaction to that?
JULIAN CASTRO: It's troubling,
to say the
least, first of all, that a
foreign government
would be trying to influence the
outcome of
a national election in the
United States,
and, secondly, that you have a
Republican
candidate who is embracing that,
effectively.
I especially cannot imagine
anyone who grew
up during the Cold War era
listening to Donald
Trump and saying, you know what,
that's a
guy that I want to support.
It makes zero sense.
And it's more evidence that he's
just unfit,
unprepared, just doesn't get it,
shouldn't
be the commander in chief of
this nation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At the same time,
again, Congressman
Castro, it's clear not only are
Americans
concerned, some of them,
concerned about the
economy.
They are worried about security.
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ISIS is out
there.
There have been a number of
shootings this
year for different parts of the
country.
You know, are we hearing from
this Democratic
Party at this convention what
Hillary Clinton's
plan is to do something about
it?
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: Yes, we
absolutely will tonight.
And she has been talking about
it on the campaign
trail.
She's eminently more qualified
than Donald
Trump is on national security
and foreign
policy.
You're right.
Terrorism has essentially become
a franchise
in the Middle East and North
Africa and increasingly
in other parts of the world.
And Hillary Clinton is going to
make sure
that Americans are safe at home
and abroad.
GWEN IFILL: Let me help our
viewers who are
confused just for a moment.
This is Joaquin Castro.
This is Julian Castro.
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: I'm sorry that
we both wore
blue suits.
JULIAN CASTRO: I always said
that the way
to tell us apart is that, even
though we're
twins, I'm a minute uglier than
he is.
So, that's the shorthand.
GWEN IFILL: We were hoping you
would wear
your congressional pin and help
us out.
But here's the thing.
You two have now been on the
scene for long
enough.
A San Antonio paper once wrote
that you were
double the talent and twice the
ambition.
So, I going to give you both the
chance to
be political analyst and tell
us, what does
Hillary Clinton have to do in
the next four
months in order to win this
thing?
JULIAN CASTRO: She has got to do
what she's
been doing.
She's going to have 30, 40
minutes tomorrow
night to connect with the
American people,
not in a 30-second ad, but to
lay out her
personal biography and why she's
qualified.
And, you know, she's taken 25
years of attacks
from the Republican spin
machine.
And so she has the opportunity
tomorrow to
lay out the case, and I expect
her to do that.
With Tim Kaine, she has somebody
who can go
out and I think carry that
message well, including
to diverse communities.
They're going to be a very
powerful ticket
together, and I expect that
she's going to
win in November.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Joaquin
Castro...
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: And here's my
pin, by the
way.
I'm sorry...
(CROSSTALK)
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: How come you
didn't put that
on earlier?
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: I was going to
do it later.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, at the same
time, Hillary
Clinton, yes, she's out there
making the case,
but there's this big trust gap,
if you will,
that she has.
How does she address that?
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: Well, I think
she's just got
to try to be herself.
And she's got to talk about the
issues that
Americans care about, which is
what she's
been doing.
As Julian said, this is somebody
who has faced
an incredible headwind, not just
when she
was on the national stage, but
even before
that, when she was first lady of
Arkansas
and her husband was governor,
so, really,
25 years in the national
spotlight, but 40
years in politics.
That's a lot of people running a
lot of negative
ads about you and trying to
define who you
are.
Tomorrow night, she gets to tell
the American
people in an unvarnished way who
she is, what
she believes and what she sees
for the country.
GWEN IFILL: Julian Castro...
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: No, the other...
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Joaquin Castro -- I
knew I was
going to do this.
Joaquin Castro, Julian Castro,
thank you both
very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I'm glad you did
that, and
I didn't.
REP.
JOAQUIN CASTRO: Good to be with
you.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you both.
And now we turn to the final
installment of
our three-part series on Hillary
Clinton's
life and legacy, which we have
just been talking
about.
Tonight, a look at her
post-first lady years,
from her run for the U.S.
Senate, to her hard-fought
race for the White House in
2008, and finally
serving as America's top
diplomat.
We explore what drove Hillary
Clinton to carve
her own path in American
politics.
After supporting her husband's
political aspirations
for almost three decades,
Hillary Clinton
decided it was her turn.
In February of 2000, while still
in the White
House, she threw her hat in the
race to replace
the longtime U.S. Senator from
New York Daniel
Patrick Moynihan.
REBECCA TRAISTER, Author, "All
The Single
Ladies: Unmarried Women and the
Rise of an
Independent Nation": Lots of
people assume
that Hillary Clinton has always
had this driving
desire to be president, like her
entire life
has been shaped by an ambition
to be in the
White House.
And that may or may not be true,
but what
was certainly true was that it
wasn't something
that she could practically
envision for herself.
Her version of the story is that
she didn't
consider taking on her own
independent political
career until the end of her
husband's second
term in the White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Less than one
year later, with
the soon-to-be-former president
by her side,
Clinton became the first first
lady elected
to public office.
Former White House aide David
Gergen calls
Clinton's Senate years the
finest and probably
most satisfying years of her
public life.
DAVID GERGEN, Former White House
Aide: There's
a famous phrase about when you
go to the Senate,
are you going to be like a show
horse or a
workhorse?
And she was very much the
workhorse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: She served on the
powerful
Senate Armed Services Committee,
worked to
extend health care to National
Guard members
and fought for expanded services
for veterans
and their families.
But one vote in particular would
plague her
for years to come.
SEN.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D), New
York: This
is probably the hardest decision
I have ever
had to make.
Any vote that might lead to war
should be
hard.
But I cast it with conviction.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton now calls
her 2002
vote to authorize the use of
military force
in Iraq a mistake.
But, in 2007, when she first set
her sights
on the presidency, she doubled
down on the
Iraq decision.
Reporter Indira Lakshmanan calls
it a political
miscalculation.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN, Journalist:
They thought
it was a coronation.
They thought that she was
definitely going
to have the Democratic
nomination in the bag.
And so they were already, from
the beginning,
trying to have her run almost
like a general
election candidate.
They were trying to have her be
centrist or
even right of center, appeal to
the so-called
security moms.
And they were still in this kind
of post-9/11
mentality, without realizing
that certainly
Democrats were so disenchanted
over the Iraq
War.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The 2008 campaign
quickly ran
into something else that caught
them off-guard,
a political newcomer named
Barack Obama, who
pulled off a surprise win in the
Iowa caucuses.
Clinton's loss there led to a
memorable encounter
with a voter ahead of the New
Hampshire primary.
WOMAN: My question is very
personal.
How do you do it?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I
couldn't do it if
I just didn't passionately
believe it was
the right thing to do.
You know, I have so many
opportunities from
this country.
I just don't want to see us fall
backwards.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: It was at
that moment that
she showed her humanity and her
vulnerability,
and a lot of people credit that
with turning
the vote in New Hampshire around
for her.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton went on
to win New
Hampshire, along with 22 other
states.
However, it wasn't enough.
Deeply disappointed, she waited
until after
the last Democratic primary in
June to throw
her support to Obama.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I move
Senator Barack
Obama of Illinois be selected by
this convention
by acclimation as the nominee of
the Democratic
Party for president of the
United States.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But then she
campaigned hard
for him, and soon after his
November victory,
she agreed to become his
secretary of state.
Almost right away, Clinton
appeared more natural
as the nation's chief diplomat
than she had
been as a candidate.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: As soon as
she had a job
to do and was a Cabinet member
of the United
States, she seemed completely
relaxed and
completely focused on doing that
job.
JUDY WOODRUFF: She worked to
gain the respect
of both foreign allies and
adversaries.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: Even when
there were times
and places where people were not
happy about
United States foreign policy and
were not
thrilled to see her, she didn't
back down
and apologize for U.S. policies.
It was interesting to see her,
even in difficult
situations sort of -- do a sort
of, like,
jujitsu.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But with many
complex global
challenges, it was also a time
of disappointments
and failures.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: She didn't
get a Middle
East peace deal.
She didn't get an Iran nuclear
agreement.
That was something that happened
under her
successor, John Kerry.
She didn't bring an end to the
Syrian war.
One wonders whether some of that
is a very
high bar to which to hold her
to, because
some of those seem like they're
intractable
problems.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton was also
a driving
force in the White House
decision to militarily
support the overthrow of Libyan
dictator Moammar
Gadhafi.
President Obama now calls his
administration's
lack of planning for what came
next the biggest
mistake of his presidency.
Libya spiraled into chaos, and
one year later,
the American Consulate in
Benghazi, Libya,
was attacked.
U.S. Ambassador Christopher
Stevens and three
other Americans were killed.
Republicans slammed Clinton for
not providing
the outpost with sufficient
security.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: What
difference, at
this point, does it make?
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: We can all
Monday-morning
quarterback, look back at it
now, and say,
was that a good decision, was it
not?
On the other hand, had tens of
thousands of
people been slaughtered in Libya
because the
United States, France, and
Britain, and NATO
had not come in, you know, the
situation could've
been worse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton stepped
down from the
State Department in February
2013, amid speculation
she was readying another run for
the White
House.
DAVID GERGEN: I think what
motivates her is
to be a transformational woman
leader.
I think she feels that.
She's been trained for this all
her life.
She's been preparing for it.
You know, talented men have
stepped forward
and had that opportunity.
Time for a woman to be a leader.
GWEN IFILL: With that, we turn
to syndicated
columnist Mark Shields, New York
Times columnist
David Brooks, and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political
Report, who are also joining us
around the
table each night for many long
hours to talk
about our live convention
coverage.
I want to start with you, David
Brooks.
We saw Bill Clinton last night
begin to make
the case.
Today, Donald Trump seemed to
jump back into
the spotlight.
What's going on here?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, he can't be
out of the
spotlight, and he's clearly
decided that bad
publicity is better than no
publicity.
And so he did something -- when
you think
about it, we're so inured to
what Donald Trump
is about to do that, if you step
back, what
he did today was kind of
amazing.
It wasn't really treasonous, but
it sort of
felt sort of that way, I mean,
calling on
the Russians to release
documents and break
into -- or presuming they have
them from Hillary
Clinton's server.
It's just mind-boggling,
frankly.
And if it was done in a normal
political year,
it would be a career-ender.
But that's clearly not the case.
And so what he's done is, he's
stolen the
spotlight.
And now the Democratic
Convention is, on a
lot of screens, the small
screen, and Donald
Trump is the big screen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You agree, Amy
Walter, Donald
Trump's stolen the spotlight?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well,
you know, this convention
tonight was already
going to be focused on national
security.
And there's been a lot of talk
both in conservative
media -- and we talked about it,
too -- that
with all the crises going on
around the world,
and it seems like daily or
weekly attacks
in Europe, that the fact that
this convention
has not yet brought that up has
been glaring.
And we now know we have Leon
Panetta tonight.
We're going to have the
president talk about
this.
Those issues were already going
to be in the
fore.
But the question with Donald
Trump, look,
I completely agree with David.
There is now an emoji going
around -- I don't
know if you have seen it -- that
goes, like,
like, does it matter?
What does this mean?
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: And on the one hand,
you would
say, absolutely, that would be a
career-ender,
this is the end of the campaign,
this is where,
right, you're talking about
temperament, et
cetera.
On the other hand, you have a
candidate in
Hillary Clinton who has problems
with e-mails.
And the issue of a server being
hacked is
a real big deal.
And having the focus once again
on Hillary
Clinton's e-mail server and its
vulnerability
is not good for Hillary Clinton
either.
GWEN IFILL: But, Mark Shields,
tonight, we
have the president of these
United States,
we have Joe Biden, his vice
president, we
have Tim Kaine, who was just
nominated this
afternoon to be vice president.
Is it possible really for
anybody to steal
that spotlight?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think
Donald Trump has
absolutely dominated the story,
for the very
simple reason, the Republicans
have enjoyed
historically and recently an
advantage over
the Democrats on national
security, sort of
national muscularity issues.
And in a time, as Amy described,
of increasing
concern, anxiety in this country
about security,
about the well-being of people's
lives, Donald
Trump, I think, in strange way,
frittered
it away, what was Republicans --
by appearing
to be more defensive and
supportive of Putin
than he is of his own United
States.
At the same time, any time
e-mails and hacking
are in the story, it is not good
for Secretary
Clinton or candidate Clinton or
nominee Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, David
Brooks, with Donald
Trump hanging out there and all
the other
Republicans who are just
salivating waiting
for there to be a big mistake, a
big, frankly,
blowup out of this convention,
what does Hillary
Clinton need to do tonight and
tomorrow night?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
I would say this is beginning to
feel like
a successful convention.
The first couple of hours were
rocky.
Then we had a sort of transition
the first
night, and then Michelle Obama's
triumphant
address, and last night, Bill
Clinton's very,
very successful address.
I imagine Barack Obama will be
very good tonight.
I imagine Kaine will be very
personable.
And so it's beginning to feel
like a successful
conventional convention.
But the thing we have to doubt
is, does that
matter anymore?
Are the rules so different?
Has basically the transformation
of society
changed the rules?
The unhappiness along class
lines?
Divisions along racial and
ethnic lines?
Have all the rules gone out?
And so we're witnessing a
fundamental transformation
of how politics is done, how the
divisions
in society is done.
And so hitting the normal
Democratic buttons
may not be enough anymore.
And I think that is the open
question that
we will face in the weeks ahead.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: And then add on top
of that historic
disapproval ratings for both of
these candidates.
And so what success normally
would be is a
bump coming out of this, and we
have seen
in recent years that the bumps
have gotten
smaller and smaller as, again,
the media landscape
has changed.
In this case, for Hillary
Clinton, just to
move her unfavorable ratings a
couple of points
would be success, but she's
still going to
be underwater.
And I don't think most
Democratic strategists
if they were honest would tell
you they don't
believe she's ever going to be
in positive
territory.
So, again, is it a success?
On paper, sure.
But is it going to move the
normal -- the
numbers normally like we would
see?
Unlikely.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Mark, yes,
weigh in on
this.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, no, the
argument that
always exists in campaigns, are
we going to
be a campaign of mobilization?
That is, are we going to up the
numbers of
our own base voters?
In this case, Democrats, it
would be minority
voters, younger voters and
women, especially
in Hillary Clinton's case, to
try and reconstruct
the Barack Obama model and win
on that.
Or do you go into persuasion,
which is to
try and reach out and reach the
disaffected
Republicans?
I see no effort to make it
legitimate for
Republicans to come over and to
find what
we have in common, especially
Republicans
who are alienated, threatened
and just turned
off by Donald Trump.
I don't think Michael Bloomberg
is the answer
to that.
I mean, that's not exactly your
garden variety
suburban Republican.
He left the Republican Party for
his own devices
and his own interests.
So I think the Democrats, it
ties Hillary
Clinton very much to Barack
Obama, because
David has talked about she has
to talk about
change and how she's going to be
different.
But at the same time, it's an
election of
continuity.
It has to be different, but it
has to be she's
trying to get Barack Obama's
constituency
energized and out in this
election.
GWEN IFILL: Mark Shields, I want
to ask you
another question.
If we time, everybody can weigh
in.
But Joe Biden, tonight, in many
ways, this
is his farewell turn, at least
at a national
convention.
Tell us about that.
MARK SHIELDS: Joe Biden, it's --
what it might
have been?
I mean, 1988 -- elected to the
Senate in '72
at the age of 29 -- 1988, a
serious candidate,
stumbled, fell on a plagiarism
charge, ironically,
and then bounced back, was a
very successful
senator, with friends across the
aisle, becomes
vice president, was sought out
as a possible,
very likely candidate to succeed
Barack Obama,
in spite of his age and the
personal tragedy
of his son Beau's death, and
being a grandfather.
But he is a -- Joe is a
throwback.
Joe is a throwback to the time
when senators
knew each other on the other
side of the aisle,
when they traveled across the
world together,
when they knew each other's
children, when
their kids went to school.
It was a different Washington,
and Joe Biden
embodies it at its best.
GWEN IFILL: We will talk about
it some more
later tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Joe Biden
talks about that
a lot.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, all right,
thank you all.
And we will see you a lot of you
later.
And starting at, speaking of
which, 8:00 p.m.
Eastern, David, Mark and Amy
will be back
for our special coverage,
NPR-"PBS NewsHour."
We're all part of this coverage
of the Democratic
Convention here in Philadelphia
-- Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy.
GWEN IFILL: But, for now, we're
going to back
to Hari Sreenivasan in
Washington.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thank you,
Gwen.
In the day's other news: The man
who tried
to assassinate President Ronald
Reagan will
go free as early as next week.
A federal judge ruled today that
John Hinckley
Jr. no longer poses a risk.
Hinckley shot and wounded
President Reagan
in March of 1981.
He was found not guilty by
reason of insanity,
and sent to a Washington mental
hospital.
He's now 61, and already spends
17 days a
month at his mother's home in
Virginia.
In Syria, the Islamic State
group has claimed
a massive truck bombing that
killed at least
48 people and wounded dozens
today.
The target was a crowded
district in a Kurdish-held
city near the Turkish border.
Thick smoke poured into the air
in the aftermath
of the blast, and the resulting
fires set
off additional explosions.
Christian and Muslim leaders in
France called
for solidarity today, after
Islamic State
attackers killed an elderly
Catholic priest.
The leader of the main mosque in
Paris said
all French Muslims condemn such
acts.
Meanwhile, mourners left flowers
and lit candles
at a makeshift memorial.
And Pope Francis weighed in,
saying -- quote
-- "The world is at war."
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): When I speak of
war, I talk about
real war, not a religious war,
no.
There is a war of interests, a
war for money,
a war for resources of nature
and a war to
control people.
This is war.
Anyone who thinks I am talking
of a religious
war, no.
All the religions want peace.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The pope spoke
before arriving
in Krakow, Poland, for World
Youth Day celebrations.
Hundreds of thousands of young
people are
expected to attend, under heavy
security.
The crackdown in Turkey has
claimed more victims;
47 journalists were detained
today.
And state media reports dozens
of newspapers
and TV stations were closed.
The government says it is
rooting out supporters
of an opposition cleric accused
of fomenting
this month's failed coup.
Back in this country, the
Federal Reserve
left interest rates unchanged
again, but it
also said near-risks to the
economy have lessened.
That leaves open the possibility
of raising
rates later this year.
The news did little for Wall
Street.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost a point
to close at 18472.
The Nasdaq rose 29 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped two.
And officials in Hiroshima,
Japan, are the
latest to object to the
smartphone game sensation
Pokemon GO.
They say players are descending
on the atomic
bomb memorial park, and asking
that the site
be removed from the game.
They want it done before August
6, the anniversary
of the U.S. attack that
destroyed much of
the city.
In a surprise move today,
prosecutors in Baltimore
dropped all remaining charges
against three
police officers in the Freddie
Gray case.
Gray died of spinal cord
injuries last year,
after being arrested and
transported unsecured
in a police van.
His death sparked widespread
protests, looting
and arson across Baltimore.
Prosecutors charged six officers
connected
to the arrest, all of whom
pleaded not guilty.
The first trial resulted in a
hung jury and
mistrial.
Three others ended in separate
acquittals.
Baltimore state's attorney
Marilyn Mosby called
today's decision agonizing.
MARILYN MOSBY, Baltimore State's
Attorney:
We stand by the medical
examiner's determination
that Freddie Gray's death was a
homicide.
However, after much thought and
prayer, it
has become clear to me that
without being
able to work with an independent
investigatory
agency from the very start,
without having
a say in the election of whether
our cases
proceed in front of a judge or a
jury, without
communal oversight of policing
in this country,
without real substantive reforms
to the current
criminal justice, we could try
this case 100
times, and cases just like it,
and we would
still end up with the same
result.
HARI SREENIVASAN: After she
spoke, the head
of the police union in Baltimore
called Ms.
Mosby's comments -- quote --
"outrageous."
Lawyers for the police officers
had argued
that their client's actions
during the Gray
arrest were justified.
For more on all this, we are
again joined
by Debbie Hines.
She is a former Baltimore
prosecutor who today
practices law in Washington,
D.C.
First, were you surprised by the
decision
this morning?
DEBBIE HINES, Former Baltimore
Prosecutor:
Oh, I think everybody was
surprised by the
decision this morning, myself
included, because,
as it looked, Officer Miller's
case was going
to start to trial this week, and
then, of
course, Officer Porter would
have been tried
later, and Sergeant Alicia
White.
So, I don't think anybody saw it
coming, but
I think it's a good move on the
part of the
state's attorney, if she
evaluated it and
came to the determination that
there is no
new, new evidence she can put
forth in any
of the cases.
And like she said, if she tried
it 100 more
before Judge Barry Williams, she
would get
the same result.
So it was a good decision.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, is this a
way for her
to cut her losses?
DEBBIE HINES: I don't want to
word it that
way.
I think that the way I would
word it is -- because
we don't look at it that way.
I mean, in terms of prosecution,
it's not
a game.
It's not a baseball game or a
football game,
in deciding what you are going
to do to cut
your losses.
It's real-life criminal
prosecution.
So, I think that what she
decided is not cutting
her losses, but hopefully having
her team
and other members evaluate, and
just determining
that there wasn't any way that
they were going
to get a conviction based on the
evidence
that they have from the police
officers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there
anything else that
can happen to the officers now?
Is there any sort of
administrative discipline?
DEBBIE HINES: Oh, that's a good
question,
because, yes, the officers are
going to be
reviewed administratively.
And that's a whole different
process and a
much more informal process, but
not as high
of a standard process as proving
criminal
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
So, already, the officers,
although they -- the
charges are being dropped in all
of the cases,
they still can face suspension
or firing or
any other type of sanction that
the Baltimore
City Police Department would
determine.
And, interesting enough, it will
not be the
Baltimore City Police Department
that is going
to make the decision.
Because of the high-profile-ness
of the case,
it has actually been assigned to
Howard County
in Maryland, and I believe
Montgomery County.
One of those or both of those
jurisdictions
together are going to be looking
from the
start all of the evidence that
may be against
the officers to see if there was
any misconduct.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But is there
enough then?
As you say, there are separate
standards.
So there is a possibility then
that they could
face administrative discipline,
but it just
-- there wasn't enough evidence
for a criminal
conviction?
DEBBIE HINES: Exactly.
And, you know, there have been
officers.
I think there have been
approximately 75 officers
in recent years that had been
fired for misconduct
in office.
And, of course, we know that
there weren't
criminal charges that were
brought in most
of those cases, because we're
seeing how it
shakes out with these officers.
So, it's a different standard.
The criminal standard is the
highest of high
standards, beyond a reasonable
doubt.
And in an administrative hearing
or administrative
situation, it's just whether
they violated
any of the orders that the
police -- the police
department had.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But what about
the process
of transporting people from a
crime scene
to jail?
Is that changing?
Has that changed?
It seems that Baltimore has had
a history
of settling lawsuits for this
very practice.
DEBBIE HINES: Exactly.
It's been difficult to prove in
a criminal
court of law what is a rough
ride, but there
has been change already as a
result of the
Freddie Gray case.
And that is good news.
So, the police commissioner in
Baltimore has
determined that there are going
to be videos
put in all of the police vans,
so hopefully
they will be operating and we
can exactly
see what actually happens inside
the van.
There was a general order that
has already
been presented by the Baltimore
city police
chief to all of his entire force
that, from
this point forward, the
detainees, prisoners,
they must be seat-belted, they
cannot be lying
face down on the floor of the
van handcuffed
and shackled.
And then, lastly, one of the
things that is
going to be a definite change is
that, if
a prisoner asks for a medic, the
officers
must at least get a medic, a
paralegal, or
have the person sent to a
hospital.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, finally
,any impact
on Ms. Mosby's career?
DEBBIE HINES: She's a political
public servant.
She's elected.
She just had started, as a
matter of fact,
in January of 2015, before these
cases.
And so it's too early to say
what will happen
with her career.
I mean, she definitely has a
very promising
career.
And I would hope that the
citizens of Baltimore
wouldn't judge her by the
actions of what
happened in these cases, because
just bringing
the cases, Hari, is going to
bring about some
change in Baltimore City
policing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Debbie Hines,
thanks so much for joining us
today.
DEBBIE HINES: Thank you, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: NASA is trying
to fight
fire with fire in space.
Researchers are conducting new
experiments
that would limit fire danger for
future space
travel.
Science correspondent Miles
O'Brien has our
encore look at this story, part
of our weekly
series on The Leading Edge of
science and
technology.
JOHN GRUNSFELD, NASA: We are
crossing an international
boundary.
We are on the U.S. side now, and
now we are
on the Russian Mir space
station.
MILES O'BRIEN: By 1997, the
Russian space
station Mir was 11 years old and
showing its
age.
During the fifth shuttle mission
to the station,
astronaut John Grunsfeld
documented the warren
of modules brimming with a
disorienting maze
of cables, hoses and trash.
JOHN GRUNSFELD: I feel like I am
exploring
a cave.
MILES O'BRIEN: Can you imagine
being in a
fire here?
U.S. astronaut Jerry Linenger
lived that nightmare
on February 23, 1997.
JERRY LINENGER, NASA: The fire
was basically
in this region here with the
flames shooting
across this way.
MILES O'BRIEN: The source was a
canister filled
with chemicals designed to
generate oxygen.
JERRY LINENGER: You have got a
two- or three-foot
flame, blowtorch-like in
intensity, sparks
flying off the end of it.
It looks like a hundred
sparklers all at once.
MILES O'BRIEN: Linenger and his
Russian crewmates
donned masks and frantically
fought the fire.
JERRY LINENGER: The fire took
about 14 minutes
total, and 14 minutes is a long
time with
a roaring fire and a blackout
from the smoke,
and no place to go.
And if it were any bigger, I'm
pretty darn
sure we would have lost that
spacecraft.
MILES O'BRIEN: For NASA
scientists and engineers,
it was a big wakeup call.
GARY RUFF, NASA Glenn Research
Center: One
of the things that you learn is,
we really
didn't have a way to put that
fire out.
MILES O'BRIEN: Gary Ruff is a
scientist at
NASA's Glenn Research Center in
Cleveland,
Ohio.
This is where the agency does
most of its
research on fires in the
weightless environment
of space called microgravity.
GARY RUFF: They used water foam
fire extinguishers
that they had, but that probably
at most just
kind of cooled everything else
around it and
kept it from spreading.
MILES O'BRIEN: Ruff leads a team
that is trying
to learn more about big fires in
space.
So, the plan is to deliberately
set one and
watch what happens, really.
All right, so what are we
looking at here,
David?
DAVID URBAN, NASA: This is the
Saffire-III
module.
MILES O'BRIEN: David Urban is
the principal
investigator for the Spacecraft
Fire Experiment,
or Saffire.
We spoke beside Saffire-III,
slated for launch
at the end of 2016.
The one currently in space,
Saffire-I, is
an identical box strapped inside
a cargo ship.
Once the craft makes its
delivery, departs
and is a safe distance from the
International
Space Station, it will be time
to light the
fire inside Saffire.
Fire on a spacecraft is a pretty
scary thing,
isn't it?
DAVID URBAN: It's a very small
space.
What you would normally tolerate
in your house
are completely non-tolerable in
a spacecraft.
MILES O'BRIEN: NASA's most
painful fire lesson
came in 1967, when three
astronauts were killed
during a countdown test on the
launchpad in
Florida.
It prompted a lot of changes in
spacecraft
designs.
The agency took great pains to
eliminate flammable
materials wherever possible.
But fires in microgravity are
harder to predict.
A lot of unanswered questions
about fires
in microgravity, right?
DAVID URBAN: A huge number.
Basically, we don't really know
how fast they
will grow or how large they will
get, nor
do we really understand, given
the way the
spacecraft are built, how
quickly that temperature
and pressure rise will be a
problem for the
crew.
MILES O'BRIEN: On the ground,
when you light
a candle, the heat of the flame
melts the
wax.
It pulls up into the wick.
It vaporizes, and that is what
fuels the flame.
So if gravity is pushing
everything downward,
what is it that makes a flame go
upwards?
Well, as it turns out, the flame
is surrounded
by higher-pressure air.
And gravity is pulling down
colder, denser
air, meaning there is more
pressure at the
base of the flame.
That's what causes the flame to
go up.
It's buoyancy.
It's the same thing that keeps a
boat afloat.
In space, when the gravity meter
reads zero,
the cool, dense air no longer
flows downward.
Instead, the air puts equal
pressure on the
flame from all directions.
The end result?
Candle flames in space are
spherical.
Over the years, NASA has
conducted several
combustion experiments on small
samples of
paper, cloth, plastics and
hydrocarbons in
special chambers on Skylab, the
space shuttle
and station.
DAVID URBAN: But they have all
been really
small.
And so one of the open questions
that we have
got is how large that flame can
get.
MILES O'BRIEN: During the
Saffire-I test,
they will set fire to a piece of
cloth just
like this.
It's 75 percent cotton, the rest
fiberglass
to give it strength.
They will analyze the fire with
sensors that
measure temperature, airflow,
velocity, carbon
dioxide, and oxygen.
But their main instrument will
be two cameras
and some controlled lighting.
The images in the data will be
beamed back
to Earth.
When the experiment is done, the
cargo ship
will be will be guided to its
own fiery end
over the South Pacific.
The Saffire team is planning
three more experiments,
for a total of six.
The fires will grow larger,
eventually simulating
a full-fledged spacecraft fire
scenario.
GARY RUFF: Since we're going to
release the
gases into the cabin, we want to
have some
material there that the crew
would have to
help clean up after a fire.
MILES O'BRIEN: Jerry Linenger
would certainly
not disagree with that.
JERRY LINENGER: Packing up.
Time to head home.
MILES O'BRIEN: Linenger made it
home safe
and sound after all, but by the
skin of his
teeth.
JERRY LINENGER: People say how
brave you were.
I don't know.
Bravery, you have got to have an
option.
You have got to have an option
to run.
MILES O'BRIEN: As NASA sets its
sights on
long-duration human missions to
Mars, it really
isn't a question of if there
will be a fire,
just when and how will the crew
be equipped
to respond?
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Cleveland.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back to Gwen
and Judy in
Philadelphia.
GWEN IFILL: Now for a lighter
take on the
convention that is nominating
its first woman,
we turn to Samantha Bee, the
former "Daily
Show" correspondent who became
host of "Full
Frontal" on TBS in February.
She's one of only two women
hosting a late-night
comedy show, which means --
we're two women,
Judy and I.
And people ask us this question
all the time.
SAMANTHA BEE, Host, "Full
Frontal With Samantha
Bee": Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Means exactly what?
SAMANTHA BEE: I don't know what
it means.
I'm just doing my job.
I'm just doing the work and
keeping my head
down and my eyes forward, as I'm
sure you
do every day.
GWEN IFILL: Most of it is
politics, though,
isn't it?
SAMANTHA BEE: Well, yes, but
isn't all of
life?
GWEN IFILL: You told "Rolling
Stone" that
having Donald Trump as the
nominee of the
Republican Party had been a
godsend for you.
What did you mean?
SAMANTHA BEE: Well, I mean, when
you're trying
to launch a satirical -- a
politically topical
show, what better gift could you
possibly
ask for than someone who turns
out -- turns
out offensive ideas and
statements on a daily
basis, sometimes multiple times
a day?
It's been -- it's been -- we
have been lucky.
GWEN IFILL: Would you say you're
a Democrat
or Republican, or neither?
SAMANTHA BEE: I would say I
definitely -- I
think my leanings are very clear
from the
show.
But I actually prefer to think
of myself in
a more independent way.
GWEN IFILL: Why?
SAMANTHA BEE: Because...
GWEN IFILL: Why not just
embrace...
SAMANTHA BEE: I do embrace it.
I definitely am excited for
Hillary.
I don't think there is any
question about
it.
I like to be able to make jokes
about both
sides of the aisle.
So, I tend to give myself -- I
like to give
myself a little freedom.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What kind of
material, though,
does Hillary Clinton provide?
If Donald Trump is the gift that
keeps on
giving, what about her?
SAMANTHA BEE: Yes.
Well, it is a little bit more
challenging,
actually.
I mean, definitely, last week,
we found ourselves
with such an abundance of
material from the
beginning.
I mean, from Monday to Thursday,
it was incredible.
It was an overflowing basket of
goodies for
us to choose from.
And, in fact, we do a show
that's three acts
long and 21 minutes, and we
ended up writing
six acts of comedy and just
doing everything,
doing all of the extras as Web
extras and
putting them up on the Web.
This week is -- we're finding
it, but it is
a little bit more -- you know,
we're having
to find a sliver, a way to get
in.
It's a little more nuanced.
It's not just a banquet for us
to select from.
So, we're having to be a little
more careful
a little bit -- and digging a
little deeper,
for sure.
GWEN IFILL: Your show is tough.
You use tough language.
SAMANTHA BEE: Thank you.
Yes.
GWEN IFILL: We could not really
air it here.
SAMANTHA BEE: I know.
I know.
It's a salty show.
GWEN IFILL: It's a salty show,
which women
are not used to hearing from --
people are
not used to hearing from a
woman.
SAMANTHA BEE: No, they're not
that used to
it.
GWEN IFILL: What kind of
feedback do you get?
SAMANTHA BEE: I don't -- you
know, I think
I stay out of the feedback loop,
to be perfectly
honest with you.
GWEN IFILL: Really?
SAMANTHA BEE: I don't engage
with it too much,
because I know that I'm doing a
show that
comes from my heart.
We're doing a show that comes
from a place
of passion and interest.
And we use salty language,
because that's
the language we feel like using
to express
our thoughts and our concerns.
And it's really cathartic for
us.
And I tend to not drop in to the
criticism
of that.
I tend to just -- I prefer to do
my own thing.
I prefer to steer my own ship,
and not -- you
know, I think that any time you
try to create
comedy or you try to create a
piece of art
by consensus, you -- I mean,
it's impossible
to do a quality product.
And I think -- so, I don't
listen to critics
all that much.
I don't read about myself.
It's much better.
GWEN IFILL: Sounds good.
I'm going to try that.
(CROSSTALK)
SAMANTHA BEE: It's actually
paradise, if I
may.
(LAUGHTER)
SAMANTHA BEE: You can live in a
bubble in
which you think you're doing a
good job all
the time if you don't read what
other people
say.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Samantha Bee, you
have expressed
some views on how few women
there are doing
what you do, doing late-night
comedy or any
kind of comedy, having their own
show.
Why do you think there aren't
more women doing
that?
SAMANTHA BEE: I wish that I had
a great answer
for that.
I wish that I had a funny and
creative answer.
But the truth is, I just don't
-- I really
don't know.
And I do think that that will
change, and
I certainly hope that it will
change.
I would love to have a
sisterhood of late-night
comedy hosts.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think it
puts more pressure
on you?
SAMANTHA BEE: It doesn't --
well, as I said,
I stay out of -- I stay out of
that feedback
loop.
GWEN IFILL: Pressure...
(CROSSTALK)
SAMANTHA BEE: So, the pressure
-- I don't
allow that pressure to really
infiltrate.
I let that conversation be held
by other people.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Let me ask you this.
Diversity in newsrooms certainly
is a big
issue.
What you see on the air is often
-- reflected
the interests of the people who
are deciding
they're going to tell you what
you need to
know.
In a comedy writer's room, how
is that reflected?
Do you have more women?
Do you have more people of color
than we normally
see?
SAMANTHA BEE: We do.
We do.
I believe we do.
And we certainly made an
absolute effort to
-- we wanted to create a diverse
workplace.
That was one of our missions
from the very
start, because the show runner,
Jo Miller,
and myself, we are both women
who, we feel
like we didn't naturally -- we
didn't fall
into comedy and comedy writing
in an obvious
way.
We didn't set -- we didn't begin
our lives
thinking, I'm going to be a
comedy writer
one day and I'm going to host my
own show.
We both worked on the fringes.
We worked in other jobs.
We came to it rather late in
life.
And so we identify with people
who don't have
access to comedy rooms.
And we wanted to definitely
create a space
in which we could bring people
in from the
outside, people who wouldn't
expect to naturally
work in comedy.
And we make efforts to do that,
I mean, every
day and in every way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we will
keep looking
for you here in Philadelphia.
SAMANTHA BEE: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Samantha Bee,
"Full Frontal,"
thank you very much for dropping
by.
SAMANTHA BEE: Thank you so much
for having
me.
GWEN IFILL: Thank you for making
us laugh.
SAMANTHA BEE: Oh.
GWEN IFILL: We could use that.
SAMANTHA BEE: We could all use a
laugh.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And finally
tonight, we mark
the end of the primary season by
looking back
at some of the iconic
photographs from the
2016 campaign so far.
And we hear from the talented
men and women
who capture those images.
MELINA MARA, The Washington
Post: Covering
politicians is fascinating,
because they're
almost like another breed.
As a political photojournalist,
my job isn't
only to document their message,
but it's also
to document the human being.
My name is Melina Mara.
I'm the national political
photographer for
The Washington Post.
And I have been on the campaign
trail with
Hillary Clinton for about a
year-and-a-half.
I think she's very comfortable
with who she
is as a person.
I have a great time
photographing her, because
she's full of expression, she's
full of physicality.
CHIP SOMODEVILLA, Getty Images:
I think just
photographing Trump is
fascinating.
He is such a character.
He's very conscious of the
camera.
He loves the camera, and it
comes across in
his pictures.
My name is Chip Somodevilla.
And I have been a staff
photographer for Getty
Images in Washington, D.C., for
11 years.
This campaign cycle blended in
immediately
from the last campaign cycle, so
we have been
covering this campaign the last
four years,
more or less.
JIM BOURG, Reuters News
Pictures: In my experience
in over 30 years of doing this,
there has
never been a campaign cycle like
this.
My name is Jim Bourg.
I'm the editor in charge of
Washington at
Reuters News Pictures.
Going back to when I started in
political
photography, in presidential
campaign photography,
it used to be a lot more
freewheeling.
You used to show up for the
events.
You used to have a lot more
interaction with
the candidates, yourself
personally.
This campaign has been
dramatically different
in this regard.
Now the two nominees have staffs
and campaigns
that are much more aggressive
about keeping
the press at a distance than we
have ever
experienced before.
MARK PETERSON, MSNBC
Photography: All these
events are orchestrated, and I
feel like it's
the photographer's job to try
and circumvent
that.
My name is Mark Peterson.
And for this campaign cycle, I
have been doing
pictures for MSNBC Photography.
I started the Political Theater
Project in
2013.
With this, you know, I converted
the stuff
to black and white and really
accented the
flash, and I use that to try and
make things
have more of a dimension to it
and also to
highlight the theatrical nature
of it.
HILARY SWIFT, The New York
Times: Something
that I kind of discovered early
on was that
the crowds were almost more
interesting than
the candidates, because the
crowds really
spoke to who the candidate was.
My name is Hilary Swift.
And I'm a freelance photographer
for The New
York Times.
This has been the first campaign
and convention
I have ever been a part of or
worked on.
It's been really surprising to
me in a lot
of ways in getting to see people
from all
over the country coming together
and showing
up to support someone, and often
also showing
up to not support ideas that
they don't agree
with.
MELINA MARA: In 2016, we are
needed.
A political photojournalist
brings something
that words can't do, brings the
humanity to
the coverage.
And it really is who this person
is.
And it really does educate the
voter in a
way that they can say, who are
you?
Can I vote for you?
JUDY WOODRUFF: I don't know what
we would
do without these photographers.
They're amazing.
GWEN IFILL: Once again, a
reminder that still
shots sometimes capture more
than moving pictures.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For sure, even
though we love
TV.
And from here in Philadelphia,
that's the
"NewsHour" for now.
But stay with us.
We will be back right here at
8:00 p.m. Eastern
for live special coverage of
this increasingly
noisy Democratic National
Convention, where
vice presidential nominee Tim
Kaine will speak,
followed by President Obama.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: I'm Gwen Ifill.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and we will see you
back here soon.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and we will see you
back here soon.